---
title: IANA Registry for Special Labels in the DNS
abbrev: Special Labels Registry
docname: draft-hoffman-dns-special-labels
date: 2018

stand_alone: true

ipr: trust200902
area: IRTF
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: std

pi:
  toc: yes
  tocdepth: 4
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes

author:
  -
    ins: P. Hoffman
    name: Paul Hoffman
    org: ICANN
    email: paul.hoffman@icann.org

normative:
  RFC1035:
  RFC5891:
  RFC8461:
  I-D.ietf-dnsop-attrleaf:
  I-D.ietf-dnsop-attrleaf-fix:
  I-D.ietf-dnsop-kskroll-sentinel:

informative:
  I-D.ietf-dnsop-terminology-bis:

--- abstract

This document defines an new IANA registry for special labels in the DNS.
The registry is useful because the labels cause special handling in DNS
entities such as stub resolvers, recursive resolvers, and applications
that use DNS, and developers of software for those entities should be aware of the
many types of special labels in use.

--- middle

Introduction
=====

Some DNS-related RFCs define labels that are treated specially by stub resolvers,
by recursive resolvers, and by applications.
It would be useful for DNS software developers to know what the entire set of
such special labels are so they can determine if their software needs to
handle those labels different than other labels.
This document defines an IANA registry for special labels and lists the
initial entries for that registry.

The special labels defined in the various RFCs were developed
after extensive IETF evaluation of alternative patterns and approaches in
light of the desired behavior of the associated protocols.
The group designing each protocol looked at the many different ways that
the protocol might be best deployed.

## Terminology

In this document, "left-most label" means the label that appears at the left
of a domain name when it is wire format or presentation format, as defined
in {{I-D.ietf-dnsop-terminology-bis}}.
In an application that uses IDNA {{RFC5891}} with one or more right-to-left
labels, the order of the labels might appear different in the application.


Definition of the New IANA Registry
=====

The creation of the registry is defined in {{ianacons}}.

@@ Proposed rule for getting in the registry: @@

A label or label-type can be added to the registry only by IESG approval.
This approval will likely come when an Internet Draft is progressed toward
publication by the RFC Editor, but can come at any time.
The reason to require IESG approval as compared to something less onerous
such as "expert review" is that developers who rely on the registry will
expect it to contain labels and label types that are relatively stable.

The columns of the registry are as follows:

@@ Define the columns here @@


Existing Special Labels {#existing}
=====

The following describes the labels that are the initial contents of the registry
described in {{ianacons}}. 

## The Root Label

According to {{RFC1035}}, a zero-length label always indicates the root label in
a domain name.

## Underscore Labels

In many protocols, one or more of the left-most labels might be a label that starts
with an underscore (_) character. Those labels are considered special within
the context of those protocols.

The use of underscore labels is described in {{I-D.ietf-dnsop-attrleaf}} and
{{I-D.ietf-dnsop-attrleaf-fix}}.

## IDNA

{{RFC5891}} defines "A-labels" as labels that begin with the characters "xn--".
These labels can appear at any position in a domain name.

## Sentinel

{{I-D.ietf-dnsop-kskroll-sentinel}} (if approved as an RFC) defines
root-key-sentinel-is-ta-\<key-tag\> and root-key-sentinel-not-ta-\<key-tag\>
as special labels when they are the left-most label. In these labels,
"\<key-tag\>" is an unsigned decimal integer that is zero-padded to five
digits.

## MTA-STS

{{RFC8461}} defines "mta-sts" as as special label when it is the left-most label.


IANA Considerations {#ianacons}
=====

@@@ Formally define the new registry here @@@


Security Considerations {#securitycons}
=====

This document doesn't introduce any new security considerations.

--- back

Acknowledgements
=====

@@@ List folks who think of other new labels to add or come up with additional
wording for the document @@@
